I was recently looking for a good game for breaks between school work, something not too addictive but that still tempts me when I need a break. 

And it turns out that the Binding of Isaac was not the game. Way too addictive. One night I swore, on my grave, I would only do 1 run. And, to be fair, I actually kept my promise. But that one run was 4 FREAKIN' HOURS LONG. It was a red key run where I broke the game, and ended up full-clearing multiple 13x13 floors while trying to get an R-key. Which I did, and I beat the mother path with one of the most ridiculous and CPU intensive runs I've ever had. 

Next, I tried cult of the lamb, which was both too addictive and then not addictive enough. I was completely taken the first day, and then was completely bored by day 2. 

And after that, I settled on hades 2, which I've already played to death (heh) but I decided to go for a night 1 win, where you win, believe it or not, on night 1.

And god almighty, that was the hardest challenge I've done in hades 2. I thought there were some tough chaos trials, but nowhere close to this. You get _nothing_ the first night. No allies, hammers, half the gods are missing, no re-rolls, no god keepsakes, etc, etc. And on top of all of that, if you EVER leave a boss room with more than half HP Eris shows up and curses you to take increasingly more damage every single room from that point onward. It's a nightmare. 

I had to do _despicable_ things to win that run. _Horrible_ things. I never thought I'd have to stoop so low. I used my _cast_. _Consistently_. And my special for that matter; I don't usually bother with either of them when I'm playing normally. I ran HESTIA. I've never been forced to play like this before. Truly being forced to use every mechanic in the game instead of just getting aphrodite on my attack and weed killer from demeter and just spamming the axe spin over and over again. 

And stacking health until I have more than the final bosses. 

After attempting the night 1 run a couple of times, I realised that I was not actually good at the game. I'd just got access to more abilities, and I didn't need to try anymore. But now I can say that I'm actually, definitively, good at hades. Because I did in fact complete the night 1 run. 

Want my advice? Investia in Hestia. Controlled burn gives your special an extra fireball which does base 150 damage, which is incredible for night 1 when you have no hammers to buff your weapon. Burning coal is also good; it lets you toss your cast for extra damage as well, letting you keep your distance while getting some base damage out of your cast and slowing down enemies from a distance.  

Also, and I didn't even realise this, but hestia's legendary gives your base cast an extra 400 damage through scorch, which is insane damage night 1 damage. It's hard to get legendary boons on the first night; but it's not impossible. 

When you're done investing in hestia, invest in Apollo. God I think Apollo was on every single one of my 5 main slots. Recovering mana with your cast is really good when you actually rely on your cast; I had him on my special as well for decent damage and extra range. I believe I had him on my attack, and I know I had him on my dash, because the extra speed is huge for avoiding things like cerb's AOE attacks and getting out of the way of chronos' scythe toss in time. 

Also, he's the only guaranteed _anything_ in the run. He always shows up in your first room and offers the same 3 boons. You can put him on your attack, your dash or your mana recovery, and after that he’ll continue to show up over the course of your run. 

My strategy for the starting boon changed over the first couple of attempts. At first I was putting Apollo on my attack, but quickly gave up when I realised I couldn't fight close range and not die on the first floor. So I switched to primarily using my special instead to keep some distance, and I stopped getting picking up his attack boon. 

Then I was picking up his mana recovery option, because it's very strong when you actually use your cast, which I was using pretty frequently. But finally I settled on the dash, after realising that all the runs I survived past Cerb, I had the extra run speed helping out. It's a huge help for avoiding wide attacks. Either demeter or apollo work well for mana regen, so there's a higher chance of pulling a good mana regen vs pulling the one good dash later in the run.

And then all the rest of the gods have _some_ good boons, but it's not the end of the world if they don't show up. Getting the extra health boon from aphrodite can be huge. Demeter can give you a free hit every room, which really helps when you're constantly running on half health and have no easy way to heal up,. and it's one extra hit against chronos, whom you can only really take like 10 hits from.

Poseidon can be good with options like sea star to double health upgrades and minor finds, and buried treasure for a guaranteed increase in money and minor finds. But you're really just rolling the dice for sea star to proc. And minor finds are only good if you're going for a deathless file, which means you'll want to start moving down your arcana path as soon as you can. In the end if poseidon showed up, which he often did, I'd fish (heh) for sea star, and then basically hope he just fucked off, because I really didn't like him on anything else. 

You can try for specific builds or strong boons, but without anything to tip the odds in your favor, you're mostly relying on luck to get legendary boons or particular boons you're looking for. hestia would just stop showing up for 4-5 runs at a time, and I would be stuck trying to get by with just my apollo-boosted special. 

In the end I mostly tried getting a few specific boons that I thought were really strong from hestia and apollo, and if I happened upon good boons from the other gods, even better, but I couldn't rely on that. so I practiced dodging and evading better, and stacking as much health as possible, because there's no way you're beating chronos with base 30 health.

By the way, if you also want to attempt this, you should know that the hardest boss is definitely the sirens. not Cerb, not even Chronos, it's the sirens. Hecate isn't even in the discussion, Hecate is easy. 

Cerberus attacks with large a.o.e. attacks, and his fight requires a lot of positioning. his a.o.e. attacks have a lot of wind up, so there's always time to dodge, but he often overlaps attacks, so suddenly you're trying to find a position that both avoids his a.o.e. attacks while also avoiding another more immediate attack.

And there are times in the fight where I felt there was just no opportunity get close for like a solid 30-40s. Fortunately, after I started to use my special more, that was less of a problem. But even then you'll end up running for your life for like 20s at a time when Cerb is cooking. 

I think Cerb might be the easiest between him, Scylla and Chronos to fight, but any mistake results in huge damage. Cerb does not mess around, he's constantly doing like 25-40 damage, and he's often mixing attacks so he can easily combo you and wipe out half of your very limited night 1 health. For reference, the absolute most health I ever ended up with on a night was about 270, after getting a bunch of health picks up, plus an epic aphrodite health boon to give me even more. Most runs I had around about 200 when I got to cerb, so I could die in 5 attacks.  

So the main challenge when fighting cerberus is one of positioning. Chronos is more of an endurance battle. He has 2 phases, so he's immediately difficult because he has so much health, essentially 2 bosses worth. And his damage is quite high on top of that. I feel like Cerb does more damage when he manages to combo you, but you still can't afford to take many hits from chronos. 

His first phase feels very straight forward, none of his attacks are that hard to dodge, and he doesn't tend to combine them in hard ways. I struggled with his scythe toss at first, because even after 400 hours of playing, I'd never been FORCED to get good at dodging it. Like I mentioned above, eventually you accumulate enough additional abilities that you don't have to try that hard anymore. But now I have no damage, no abilities, and like 270 health MAX. so I had to get that scythe attack DOWN.

Once I could dodge his scythe, none of his other attacks were that bad in the first phase. The scythe toss comes out fast and goes across a large portion of the screen which is why it kept hitting me, but I got used to preparing for it and rushing away when he started the wind up. 

His second phase is way harder, because he starts fighting like cerberus, throwing both A.O.E. attack as well as his normal moves, and he can eat up half your health bar in 1 combo if you get stuck in a bad position. He really just swarms the screen with attacks at points, especially in the first 20s of his second phase. So Chronos is definitely hard. 

But the thing is, at that point your run is usually much more settled than it is in oceanus. Normally when I’m running through the first 2 and a half areas, my run is hanging by a thread. I have half health, it’s a toss up whether I can get more from the shops, I’m just surviving by the skin of my teeth, And I'm usually missing one of the big three things you need in a run: damage, survivability or mana regen. By the time I get to chronos, my run is either workable at this point, or I'm dead. There's no in between. 

So when you're going up against the sirens, yeah they don't do as much damage as chronos, but you might not have a very good run yet, and I usually only had about 100-130 health at this point in the run. And then the battle begins and you have to deal with the 3 major problems that the sirens present; i.e. that there are 3 of them. 

You constantly have to be paying attention to all of them. if you focus too much on one of them, another’s going to hit you with an attack you weren’t expecting because 2 seconds ago they were off in fucking Narnia and now they're breathing down your neck (thanks jetty). So immediately your observation skills are being challenged much more than with other bosses, because you have to keep track of 3 bosses at the same time. 

Compare that to Cerb. He's only 1 enemy and his model is huge, so it's very apparent what attack he's winding up to use. Jetty is tiny, and her wind-up is subtle, so if you're not paying attention because you're focusing on one of the other two, she'll dash into you from the other side of the map. 

But it's Roxy, the drummer, that's the main threat. She is constantly bombarding the screen with A.O.E. attacks like Cerb, making sure there are only a few very small spots in the arena that are truly safe. So now your ability to position is also being tested, just like Cerberus and Chronos' second phase. 

And then on top of that, there's just some positions where if you end up in them, you're going to take damage, because there's just too much going on to avoid everything. Roxy is using her a.o.e. attack, you’re dodging that while trying to avoid Scylla’s homing attack, and suddenly jetty leaps from the top of the cage and clothes-lines you. 

Between Roxy’s barrages, Jetty’s pin-point attacks, and Scylla’s mix of homing and a.o.e., you can no longer just dodge and hope for the best, now you need to actively create more advantageous positions which requires a new skill: tactical thinking. 

Mainly you do this with jetty, because jetty will rush right towards you, and if you dodge her, she'll end up flying right past you. So if you can set off the two steam traps in the arena, and then get her to rush into that area as it goes off, she’ll die instantly. But I was never very good at getting that timing down while also dealing with everything else.

Usually I would try and goad her to dash past me into the middle of the arena, away from the back where Roxy was, while I tried to focus on defeating Roxy. I usually aimed for Roxy first because killing her makes the arena much safer to run around in.

If you goad Jetty to dash near Roxy, now they're both in range of your attacks and you can do double damage. But if you do that, Jetty will attack again much faster and probably do some damage if you get caught trying to dodge her and roxy at the same time. 

And while Scylla moves slower than jetty, you can, and should, still goad her away from roxy, or else she'll use her spinning laser attack and push you away from roxy for 10-15s. 

The sirens are a tactical nightmare, and it’s especially hard in Hades 2 because this isn’t a game that usually challenges you in this type of way. and now you suddenly can’t just dodge and punish, you have to actively guide the sirens so they’re in positions where they can’t overwhelm you. You have to be thinking multiple steps ahead. 

And while the sirens don't usually have all that much health, even taking into account all 3 of them, this is the first night, so they have more than enough to wear you down. I can kill Roxy in under 10s on my good file, but on night 1 it's taking a minute or 2 depending on how bad my run is doing.
A
nd then they have a second phase 2, where Jetty (it’s always Jetty on the first night) becomes the star performer and her attacks get more complex, and you essentially have to do a second phase against them but harder.

I eventually got pretty good at them. I stuck to the walls next to Roxy, where it was safe from her drum attack. Whenever I was pushed away I'd head towards the center of the arena and try to goad the other 2 sirens away before running back to my safe spot and trying to kill roxy as fast as possible. not only that, but the center of the arena is generally more safe than the back of the arena because it gives you the most amount of time to react to roxy's attacks.

Also, even ignoring the bosses, I think oceanus is the 2nd hardest area. enemies do decent damage considering the amount of health you're probably working with, all the rooms are tight and cramped with traps that can hurt you if you activate them in a tight spot, and the enemies use a mix of homing and rush down attacks. Usually by the time I got to the boss room, I wasn't exactly doing so hot, and you're not guaranteed health before the sirens. Whereas I'm _pretty_ sure that you are guaranteed health before chronos on the first night, because I've never not gotten health before his boss fight, and I had to retry this challenge a lot. 

Erebus is super easy once I started using my cast to keep those screaming enemies away, the ones that rush you down. and so are the mourning fields, as long as you only use coward strats. Use your cast to slow down enemies while continuously backing away, and you're good. The mourning fields are a much more open area, so you have so much space to position and make sure that your enemies aren't surrounding you, and to continuously retreat if things get hairy. 

Tartarus is definitely the hardest though. enemies have so much health and they hit hard. There are some open rooms, but there are also really small ones. the gold bag boss is such pain in the ass, that even if you feel like you should risk extra rooms to get more boons, you might not want to just to avoid that little fucker. and for the fucking life of me I cannot consistently avoid the stupid hourglass enemies, especially in tight rooms. they shoot in spiral patterns and I just keep running directly into the stupid things.  

Hey, let’s talk about your night 1 weapon now. The staff is NOT my weapon of choice, especially with no aspect and no hammers to help. I'm much more of an axe man myself. I love a big fuck-off axe. but you're stuck with the staff for the first night. In fact you’ll be stuck with the staff for a couple of  nights, until you can unlock the pickaxe and get some silver. 

I feel like the strike radius on that thing is so low I just can't hit anything with it, so as previously stated, I started relying on my special. at least the special lets me keep some distance and is much easier to use than the attack because it explodes in a radius. And a pretty sizable radius if you put Apollo on your special. 

Normally when I use the staff, I use the aspect of Momus, which I don't have on the first night, and focus heavily on using my omega attacks. Omega attacks which I buff with the hammers, which I ALSO DON'T HAVE ON THE FIRST NIGHT. so I'm stuck with this thing's terrible base damage.

In the end, on my winning run I got Apollo's legendary boon; double omega moves at the cost of +30 mana to cast them + controlled burn to give even more damage to my special, but it also costs another 15 mana. So at that point I had theoretically fantastic special damage, but with the slight issue that I didn't have nearly enough mana regen to use it effectively. 

I wasn't even sure if I should take the apollo boon, but I did, not because I thought it was a good choice for the run, but because I thought it was really funny. and at that point the run wasn't looking so hot anyway, so I decided to go for the hail mary pass.  

Apollo's legendary boon is fantastic, one of my favorites, but it's hard to get good mana regen on the first night, and +30 mana to cast your omega special is a lot. I had like, 80 total mana and only recovered 40 from using my cast, now my special costs like 55 to use ONCE. So if I want to cast my omega special, I can only cast it once before I need to get back mana from my cast, and my cast takes 5-6s to run out before I can cast a new one, and even then I'm only getting 1 more special attack.

But then I risked a couple extra rooms in tartarus, ended up getting a triple pom on my mana regen so I recovered 80 or 100 each time I cast, and I got extra magick in the shop before chronos, so now I could cast 3 times before needing to recharge and when I recovered magic I recovered most of it. At that point, the run is as good as you could pray a night 1 run can be.  

And I played that chronos fight super well. I think I lasted out his first phase and his barrage at the start of his second phase without getting hit at all. a feat which of course was helped by that phase being much shorter thanks to actual good damage. and the rest is history.

Now I'm working my way through a "deathless run". Deathless is in quotations because you have to die once or twice for story related reasons. But the first night really is the hardest. I died on night 2 on my first deathless attempt, but that was only because I didn't realise that Eris showed up if you had death defiances as well as if you had more than half health after a boss fight, so by the time I got to the sirens they were doing like 1.5 damage and I just got stomped. 

But I got another night 1 win after only like 2 more attempts, and then proceeded to crush my way through the first 10 nights. I had 1 close call, where I beat chronos with 6 health left. but overall, once you get access to hammers on the second night, your damage skyrockets, and it is _sooo much_ easier. 

I usually try and get the hammer that gives you a timed powershot. If you hit the timing window, you recover mana and do extra damage. If that one wasn’t available, double omega special at the cost of range is also super good. If neither of those show up, then I just go for anything that works with my special. 

The first 10 runs are notable because after that Eris will stop showing up, meaning you don't have to worry about being low health after fighting a boss. I actually made a spreadsheet with all the bosses, their attacks and how much damage each attack did, and a cell that would automatically calculate the optimal health I needed to finish a boss fight with and how much more damage I'd need to take to get there.

If you are doing deathless then poseidon is a good boss to get _when you safely can_ because he's the main god to give you more of the meta currencies, ash and bones, that let you purchase new arcana. If you're trying to avoid Eris, you can't get death defiances which sucks, but you can make a bee-line for the strength arcana for a huge defense buff. 

After those first 10 runs, it's smooth sailing for a while. You can go for the bounties early if you want, I've opted to basically max out everything, keepsakes, weapons, etc. That way when I do the harder bounties I have the best chance. That part is easy, but takes a long time. This is the point I'm at in my deathless file. Maxing out all the weapons, keepsakes, arcana and familiars takes a while.

As a result, my deathless challenge is going to be bookended by the hardest runs. all the hardest bounties, chaos challenges, and the champion of the night challenges are going to be near the end. So if I die, it's going to freakin' suuuuuuuck because I'll need to do all that grinding again. Realistically, I should've just maxed out the small amount of keepsakes I actually use consistently and started the bounties the second I had all 3 death defiances. But this is the safest way overall. It gives me the best chance of success, it’s just that if I die I lose way more time than if I started risking it earlier and died earlier.

The chaos trials are the challenges that I'm really worried about, specifically the great chaos above and below trials. Your vows, arcana, weapon, aspect, keepsake and familiar are all randomized in those runs, so you could easily get no death or strength arcana, and also the rival vow is active for every boss. And then you're pretty much just cooked if you're me, because man those rival boss fights are BRUTAL. 

And if I can't guarantee the gods I usually build around, then odds are my run is going to suck. I swear, I play this game like a gremlin, I use the same strats and the same weapon every single run, I do not do variety when it comes to Hades. 

And there's no avoiding this. The great chaos above and below are going to be some of the last challenges you do, because there are so many pre-requisites to unlock them. You have to have basically everything in the game unlocked, weapons, aspects, arcana, familiars, keepsakes, etc, etc. And because the challenge is so hard, you also ideally want to have all of them maxed out so that you have the strongest run possible. 

There are other tough chaos trials too. Getting through the rift of Thessaly with the white antler gave me a lot of trouble the first time around, in no small part because I'm bad with the sister blades. But at the same time, I feel like 30 health for the rift of Thessaly is going to be hard no matter what weapon you’re running.

Contrarily though, some of the harder challenges, like the 4/5 difficulty "beat erebus with no arcana" was a freakin' breeze, because it's basically just a super easy version of the night 1 run. You only have to get through erebus, and you even get 1 hammer, and you don't even need to worry about being at half health the entire time. 4/5 difficulty? pfft, gimme a break. gimme 1 hammer and I'm set.  So I’m at least hopeful that most of the chaos challenges are not going to be that hard now that I’ve done something that's so comparatively harder. 

Oh and fucking supergiant decided to drop a new game mode, those delightful little cretins. It's the new Hypnos mode, where you play 4 of the 8 floors available in the game in a random order, and each floor is buffed/debuffed depending depending on when you run into them in hypnos mode. so if you get tartarus on the first floor, it's scaled to be way easier to fit a 1st floor challenge. but if you get erebus as you last floor, suddenly every enemy has like triple health and double speed. 

It's a cool gamemode, and it's really funny to get Chronos or Typhon on the first floor, because they have no health at all, so you’ll just batter them. But then you can get the rift of Thessaly as your last floor, and now all the enemies are faster and do more damage and Eris has like double the health. I actually lost a run (just before starting this challenge) recently because I got Eris on the last floor and my daybreak attack with the umbral flames doesn't go through the pillars, which messes up the coward strats I use against Eris. 

And then while I was trying to finish the zagreus relationship on my deathless file he almost capped me. Twice. 50 damage on the first floor is fucking brutal dude. I was 2 hits away from death after beating him, and all I can say is thank god I've had so much practice fighting while low on death defiances, because that run was looking dire for a hot minute.

So plenty of hard runs are still on the horizon. I think that's about it honestly, and I'll do a 2nd blog post whenever I complete or fail this challenge as a little update. 





