apparently smiling friends is finished after 3 seasons. it was greenlit for 5 seasons, but then I guess the creators decided they didn't want to do seasons 4 and 5. supposedly they were having some burnout. 

but seeing as the show is offiically over, now is the perfect time to rank every episode of smiling friends.... by how well they did their job in that particular episode. and for the record, if you haven't seen the show and you're wondering what the fuck I'm going on about, that might be the position from which to read this post.  

desmond's big day out: alright let's think about this one. desmond did smile by the end of the episode, and even managed to get some purpose back in his life, but did the smiling friends manage to do anything to help that along? nothing that pim (and charlie was there too) showed desmond actually helped his outlook on life. the only thing they can be said to do is bring him back to the office when a a bliblee infestation just happened to be going down.

so job complete, but completely by accident, sorry boys, you're getting an e on this one. e for effort. good effort. try again. 

mr. frog: yet again, everything the two of them tried to do made everything worse and worse for mr. frog. in fact, they didn't even managed to accidentally get mr. frog to do the right thing, he decided of his own volition to apologize and make everything right. 

the smiling friends get an F. the F stands for frog. mr. frog specifically, who gets an S-tier, because he managed to pull himself out of that gutter he dragged himself into, and also because I'm afraid he'll hop out of the tv and kill me and my family if I don't. 

shrimp's odyssey: oh my god, pim pulled it off. I mean, he had a terrible misunderstanding about who shrimpina was, but if we look at his plan, he went to the girl, brought the girl back to shrimp, they immediately fell in love, and shrimp smiled. it was a bit of an accident... but we can give pim an a-tier for his efforts. although all charlie did was injured the poor shrimp over and over, so charlie gets an E. e for effort. try harder charlie. 

a silly halloween special: alright, no job to make people smile today, but pim was tasked with getting firewood from the forest, and he succeeded. um, I guess. I guess a forest demon counts as firewood, he's made out of twigs and whatnot. not only that, but also what an exceptional performance from pim, managing to outplay a freaking forest demon. can my boy pimothy get a round of applause? s-tier. good job pimothy. 

who violently murdered simon s. salty: they did manage to find the murderer of simon s. salty, which was every single mascot in the store, and simon's heart problems, but no convictions? like boys, that's at least attempted murder for all of them. you should of brought them in. I'll give you a b-tier though. not bad work. 

enchanted forest: I have to give charlie credit for manage to traipse across the entire enchanted forest after getting derailed from their quest by a witch quest. pretty good stuff. and the did kill mip, which directly lead to the princess smiling, although it was an accident, and they brought mip's box to the princess which happened to be a bomb. still, I gotta say, that was a stellar performance from charlie, that required a lot of bravery, courage and wisdom. I feel like they accidentally stumbled into getting the smile from the princess, but the work they had to do to get there was still admirable. a for charlie. but f for pim. pim was basically useless this episode, he spent the entire quest doing gollum cosplay. 

frowning friends: the frowning friends outplay the smiling friends at every opportunity here, and somehow managed to get to every single civilian before the smiling friends, except for 3D squelton. the boss only managed to win the day by doing the opposite of the smiling friends motto, and breaking into the frowning friends office to kill them. f-tier performance, the f stands for "frowning friends" who by the way get an a-tier. would've been an s if grim hadn't pissed him self and then got murdered by the renaissance men. 

charlie dies and doesn't come back: I guess the goal of this episode was to redeem himself, and you know what, charlie did that. and I'm not arguing with god, or gilbert gottfried for that matter, so my boy charlie gets an s-tier. I mean, he got literally satan to smile, that's pretty impressive. 

the smiling friends go to brazil: the only goal for the smiling friends this episode was to enjoy their vacation, and they failed miserably, because pim forgot the tickets. f-tier. relax better next time guys. 

gwimbly: definitive remastered enhanced extended edition DX 4K: you know what, charlie really put in the effort on this one. the boy got in a maid outfit and had his nose ripped off. and none of that managed to make the client smile, but at some point, and e for effort becomes an a for effort, this guy has suffered enough. pim on the other hand didn't manage to do much to get qwimbly to smile, and yet again his smiling was completely unrelated to the stuff that pim had been trying to do to help. so pim's and all are going to get an e for effort. 

mr. president: I'm going to be real, it's astounding that they managed to get this close to having the president win the election, even through sheer luck. that man is unsalveable, and he only lost by 1 vote? a-tier work from the smiling friends. but glep gets super f-tier for ruining the greatest comeback story of all time. boooh, glep, fuck you.

an allan adventure: you gotta hand it to allan, he was put through the wringer but goddamn if he didn't manage to get those paper clips. s-tier performance, allan could and should be the star of a big budget action movie. allan (as the terminator): I'll be back.... for my cheeeeese.

erm, the boss finds love?: erm, I guess they stopped the demon from sucking the bosses soul out through his asshole. and saved the whole company. although yet again, their assassination plan failed miserably, and they really just bullied her until she committed sui--- you know, what let's just give 'em an a-tier and move on. 

brother's egg: I mean, they got dr. psychotic and his brother into a room together to chat things out. and that chat went terribly, however, they did make up as a result of the homonculus hatching from the egg. so even though their plan didn't really work out as they intended, they were the catalyst by getting the two back in the same room. I feel like this is a... b-tier maybe?

charlie and pim vs the alien: I mean, there was no goal to this episode, just 2 boys having a rowdy saturday evening, but I gotta say, destroying a planet - not super smiley of them. even if there wasn't any life on that planet. f-tier performance men. 

the magical red jewel (AKA tyler gets fired): they managed to get the red jewel, and it wasn't pim or the bosses fault that the entire spamtonian civilisation was destroyed, that was definitely the eye guys fault, but it does seem like no matter where the smiling friends go they have a knack for making things worse. a-tier.

pim finally turns green:
I mean, they did get the snow-man to smile at the end. he seemed pretty happy when he was destroying that ship, so points for that I guess. b-tier. 

silly samuel:
yet again, the smiling friends didn't really do anything, they failed to make silly samuel smile, and then he and a crowd of people almost got run over by the smiling friends building, and that happened to solve all his problems. granted it's hard to try so many things when you've only got 10m to an episode, but damn, this was not a great performance. f-tier. 

le voyage incroyable de monsieur grenouille:
the conceit of this episode is that monsieur grenouille goes on a journey of self-discovery, and in that aspect pim did actually help him figure out the next step in that journey - right before mr. frog roundhouse kicked him into next week for absolutely no reason. a journey of self-discovery is more about the journey than the than the destination - I mean it's in the title. so pim was a good part of that journey. b-tier. 

mole man:
I mean, they didn't even really have a job to make mole man smile, and they weren't really the impetus that made him smile, but because there was no job in the first place and he even ended up smiling at the end, I'm going to give them an a-tier. mostly because they were nice enough not to call the authorities. a, for authorities. on the opposite end, allan and glep got their first job, where they got absolutely destroyed by three little monster children. I guess they did their job and mom did smile at the end, so I'll also give them an a-tier. although they are terrible babysitters. 

curse of the green halloween witch:
no job here, but man, the SMILING FRIENDS couldn't even part with a dime for that old witch. like damn, that's just.... come on guys. that witch was doing the opposite of smiling in the after credits scene. also pim killed literally everyone in the crystal ball, which isn't going to look good on his resume. f-tier. 

pim and charlie save mother nature:
another vacation episode, where pim and charlie do a terrible job of having a relaxing vacation, although the boss and allan seem to be getting along just fine. so maybe we can split the difference there, but also pim just straight up capped mother nature which is... not ideal. f-tier. but they do like super monkey ball.... so you know what, I'll bump them up to a e tier. 

squim returns: 
charlie straight up lies and calls in sick, so he's getting an f-tier. come on, have some pride in your work you FUCKING LIAR, YOU FUCKING RAT, YOU FUCKING PIECE OF SHIT LYING RAT. squim and charlie
immediately solve the smiling problem, so technically they got their job complete, but they also made mr. ice cream sad, which while he wasn't technically a client, still feels like they undid they're good. but also squim literally died in the line of duty, after getting shot to death, and the police shot his soul to death, and he probably saved charlie by intervening, so you know what? mozel tov. s-tier, for squims brave sacrifice. 

shmaloogles: 
you gotta give charlie credit, he went above and beyond this episode. technically the shmaloogles' problem was fixed like 3 minutes into the episode, but despite that he still saved pim, stopped them from being attacked by an evil warlock... thing, and pim and charlie even managed to help that evil warlock feel better about himself. I'm not sure he smiled though. but then again, i'm not sure human being's like him are capable of feeling true joy. s-tier's all around. 

the glep ep:
uh, I mean there may have been a client on screen, we mostly follow glep this episode, who doesn't have a client, because he doesn't have a job. but when he gets back the smiling friends are literally on the verge of collapse and pim might've actually been legally dead for a bit there, so it's safe to say whatever job they may have had did not go well. also glep literally made every he came into contact with worse off, and he literally started the bubonic plague, so I'm definitely going to have to dock points for that. god I wish that rotoscope douche would get hit with a car, if glep had snapped his neck I would've given him a a-tier. as it is, f-tiers all around. 

then again glep was the reason the smiilnig friends started in the first place, so maybe he should get like a permanent s-tier... but at the same time the smiling friend's track record has not been... great exactly. so maybe he should get a permanent d-tier. 

friend-bot (version 12589218731809213528796879521): 
charlie and pim immediately fail to make their client smile, and then he immediately dies. and he did suck, but the rules are the rules and they gotta get an f-tier for that. 
smile robot on the other hand gets an s-tier for literally doing a week's work of smiling in 1 day, and making a person smile by simply saying saying binary to that person. also his art of pim as a hotdog was pretty great. 
then the smiling friend's bickering stopped the robot, who was actually a low-resolution indian man, from making literally everyone in the world smile, which considering his track record, I have to assume he was serious about. 
so f-tiers all around. except for the low-resolution indian man. he gets the only s+ tier rating. I mean seriously, the lengths he went to for the smiling friends crew was pretty amazing. and I will never be able to get the picture of what the boss did out of my mind again. 

charlie's uncle dies and doesn't come back:
charlie stands up to his uncle, gets his uncle to smile, and also gets his uncle locked in jail for 20 years. all positives. s-tier for the smiling friends. s-tiers all around. 

-------

I mean let's go over the criteria I suppose. first of all, the namesake, the goal of the smiling friends: did they succeed in making the client smile, and to what extent were they involved in getting the customer to smile. I think this is a point that needs to be touched upon, because while they do often get the smile, it's not usually a result of their competence at making people smile, it's usually just random happenstance that solves whatever situation in. so they get points for getting the smile, regardless of the means, but they'll lose some points if they weren't that effective on that particular job. 

and 2nd of all, outside of their specific job, did they have the smiling friends spirit. if they make a random person frown, that doesn't feel very in-line with the philosophy of the smiling friends coorporation. you know, if theoretically they kill mother nature or destroy a planet, you know, is that really in-line with the morals that are represented by their parent company? this second point will be important for episodes where they don't have a job in the traditional sense.

and I will be doling out bonus points for characters who go above and beyond the call of duty. 

and finally, some episodes will have multiple rankings for the various characters, if they had different jobs or were more or less effective than other characters doing the same or a different job. 

S+
--
charlie dies and doesn't come back:
a good showing from charlie. he managed to traverse all the way through hell, giving him tons of above and beyond bonus points, made the literal devil smile and was redeemed in the eyes of god and revived from the dead. and while he didn't really convince the devil to of his own actions, and it was actuall the devil getting pissed off at him that did it, I'm not sure that's charlie's fault in this case, charlie was just straight up giving the devil good advice. a stellar performance, and I gotta be real, I'm not arguing with literal god, nor gilbert godfried. for his performance in this episode, charlie gets the coveted s+ tier. 

S
-
shrimp's odyssey: I mean, you gotta give him credit, pim pulled it off. despite a crucial misunderstanding, his plan still went off flawlessly - just with a different girl who wasn't shrimpina. and while I'm tempted to give him just an A-tier for not knowing who shrimpina was, I gotta give him extra points for giving up his possible relationship with the cutie with a booty just to help shrimp. s-tier. 

a silly halloween special:
while there wasn't a traditional job this episode, pim was tasked with getting firewood and he did succeed. I think? forest demon counts as firewood right? yet again, I feel like maybe an s-tier ranking should be out of the picture, because he mostly just survived and brought the demon to the smiling friends building incidentally - but you just gotta give him credit for going above and beyond in surviving that chase scene. pulling the oar down with the rope? hitting the demon with his pellet gun? slick moves mate. s-tier for service above and beyond the call of duty. 

an allan episode: 
I mean, allan's job was to get those paper clips, and you've gotta give him credit, he went through some crazy shit to get them back to the office, and he even disarmed the bomb of a dangerous and insane individual. wasn't his fault that the landlord committed sepuku. he even helped an old man by teaching him that he could use his oddly shaped nose to turn on electronical devices instead of paper clips. that old man did canonically die off screen, but yet again, that's not really allan's fault. 
and completely off screen apparently pim and charlie had the greatest job every, that changed both of their lives, so you know what, fuck it. s-tiers all around. good job. I mean this is why allan's the best characktahr. 

silly samuel:
allan, actively stopped the boss from killing the inspector, and did I'm pretty sure literally nothing else, so he'll an s-tier. I mean yet, a flawless performance really.

pim and charlie save mother nature:
allan and the boss however did a fantastic job at relaxing, s-tier for them. glep is N/A because the dude does nothing but relax, so I don't think this vacation is relevant to him at all. 

squim returns:
squim gets top marks for completely and instantly finishing their job and getting the iconic duo rat and maggot back together, but then immediately loses some points for making mr. ice cream cry. but then, he did die in the line of duty, and probably saved charlie as well, even if by accident. and not only did he die but the pigs shot his soul to death as well - well, okay, they did manage to resuscitate his soul, so fair's fair. I think gotta give squim an s-tier for service above and beyond the call of duty, falling just short of the coveted s+ tier for making mr. ice cream cry. 

shmaloogles:
despite initially trying to bail, charlie does a pretty bang up job in this episode. despite the fact that the job is technically a success without him having to do anything, as the shamloogle mechanic manages to fix the shmaloogle machine, charlie goes above an beyond, rallying the shmaloogles to stop the evil warlock that captured pim, orchestrating an epic training montage, and then storming the castle. and pim manages to remedy the situation between the evil warlock and the shmaloogles, which is genuinely impressive, considering he was killing the shmaloogles and using their blood to try and regrow his hair. 
I mean, they didn't get a smile out of the warlock, but he wasn't client, and I don't think human beings like him are capable of smiling. also we can all agree charlie taking an upskirt picture of princess shmaloogle is slander. right? right. 
s-tiers all around, good showing from the smiling friends.

charlie's uncle dies and doesn't come back:
gotta give charlie credit, he stood up to his uncle, saved pim, and got the smile, and charlie's uncle got locked up in part thanks to the smiling friends, which he deserved. and pim also stood up for his friend. s-tiers all around. 
and the dog also gets an s-tier for foiling the landlord's master plan. good job poochie. 

A
-
enchanted forest:
I mean, the princess smiled, as result of their actions, but I gotta say, they really stumbled into that smile. they accidentally brought a pipe bomb from a crazy stalker to the princess, and while they did kill mip which was probably for the good of everyone, it was completely an accident and only happened as a result of them arguing. I gotta say I'm not super impressed. 
but, I will give charlie quite a few bonus points for this one, for apparently effortlessly marching his way through multiple quests and challenges, and even solving the thousand year war between the aliens and the spiders. traversing the enchanted forest takes unrelenting dedication, bravery, and wisdom. and if he hadn't trekked all the way through the forest, they never would've managed to make the princess smile. 
there are too many terrible blunders this episode for a true s-tier, but I'll give charlie a solid a-tier. 

charlie on the other had, was put through the wringer by an absolute psychopath. while he didn't really get the smile of his own actions, I think that we can all agree nothing charlie could've done WOULD'VE gotten that smile, and honestly, you gotta give him above and beyond points. dude dressed in a maid outfit and had his nose ripped off. an a-tier attempt from charlie. 

The Magical Red Jewel (aka Tyler Gets Fired):
while this episode does feel like it's the boss and pim getting lucky, it's pim's world view and prior connections that he built with his old pen pal, who turned out to be the king of spamtopia. and he apparently helped the king get through his hardest times back in the day. this is a subtle one, and a lucky one, but you can't deny that it was pim's general outlook on life and outgoing nature that managed to save them in the end. 
and I mean, it's not really their fault that spamtonians are all psychos that caused the entire nation to collapse. I'm gonna give them an... a-tier. a really solid performance from pimothy. 
meanwhile allan and charlie were tasked with taking care of the boss's 18 year old son, who immediately shriveled up and died for no reason, but I mean. I don't really think you can blame them for this one. like come on. so I'll just give then an N/A on this one. 

pim finally turns green:
I mean, pim managed to give rotten a beautiful day of fun and friendship, before ruining it by telling him about the concept of death. but at the end of they, the smiling friends did do their best to give rotten a life worth living, and as he thought he was passing to the next life, he was content with his life. 
and then he turned into the ocean and swallowed a cruiser. but that's not really the smiling friends fault. they did right the snowman, a-tier.

Le Voyage Incroyable de Monsieur Grenouille:
strictly because this episode is shown to be more of a spiritual journey, I feel like the smiling friend's actions actually did have an impact. where as many times I feel like the client is looking for a particular solution, in this case, mr. frog is on a journey to discover the next phase of his life. it it's a journey, then the destination doesn't matter as much AS the journey, and eliminating options ends up being just as important as giving him a solution. 
and pim managed to give him clue as to the next step of his journey, right before getting roundhouse kicked by mr. frog for literally no reason. I was gonna say b-tier, but honestly, I think pim deserves some extra points for getting injured in the line of duty. solid a-tier for the smiling friends.

squim returns:
pim doesn't do much, but he does try to keep squim in line, and takes him out of the ice cream shop before things get out of control. he shows admirable sympathy for his friend, so he's gonna get an a-tier I guess. he literally did nothing otherwise though, so I can't give him an s-tier.    

B
-
frowning friends:
if not for grim pissing himself and both grim and gnarly getting murdered by the renaissance men, I would've given them an s-tier. as it is, they'll get... a b-tier. excellent effort, but they didn't manage to stick the landing. 

mole man:
I mean, pim and charlie didn't really have a traditional client in this episode, because mole man never asked to smile, he just kidnapped them and made them play along with his insane games. he smiled, completely irrelevant to their actions, but I think I gotta give it up for charlie and pim for not calling the cops on mole man for abduction charges. 
at the same time, allen and glep were supposed to take care of the kids, and while they didn't manage to do a great job with that, they were put through the wringer, the kids ended up fine, and the mom ended up happy and smiling. for going above and beyound, I'll give them some bonus points, and all in all I think every did a solid b-tier job on this one. 

C
-
who violently murdered simon s. salty:
I mean, they did find the murderer: literally everyone, including salty's own arteries, thanks to their investigation. but then they didn't manage to put any of them into custody. like that's definitely attempted murder all of those funny mascots should be going in for. but maybe the mascots are correct and they legally can't be convicted because salty was already dead. and I mean, realistically, could charlie and pim have actually detained any of those mascots? probably not. and hey, the mascots were smiling at the end. I'll give them a tentative c-tier for this one. 
I would've bumped it up for charlie's dedication to honoring the century eggs last wish, going above and beyound the call of duty, but they dug him and ostensibly ate him off screen, so I feel like those cancel out. 

erm, the boss finds love?:
I mean, they did save the boss. well, they didn't, they failed to kill the demon, and then mostly did comedically realistic dialogue until she committed suicide. also, they did make her cry and kill herself, which I feel like is against their philosophy. but also, also, she is a literal demon and I don't like her and she scares me. 
I gotta say, I'm conflicted on this one, so I'll give them a c-tier. C for conflicted. 

pim and charlie save mother nature:
I'm gonna let pim off with a c-tier, because he did save charlie, but at what cost. c for conflicted. 

D
-
mr. president:
I mean, yet again, how much of this was the direct result of the actions of the smiling friends? not much. but also, their involvement managed to get the president 1 vote away from victory, which is nothing short of a miracle. THIS GUY. you gotta give them some credit for that. 
but then glep is the one deciding vote AGAINST gimble, who they were tasked to help. and on top of that, I'm not sure they actually managed to make gimble smile. oh yeah. I guess... that's a smile. 
I'm conflicted. I'm gonna give them a d-tier for a borderline miracle almost taking place.

also bills' dead, so I will bump him up to a D-tier for tragically dying in the line of duty. d for dead tier. even though he wasn't even a smiling friend, and he was just some dude with a theramin. 


E
-
desmond's big day out: 
both charlie and pim get an e-tier for eeee-revelent. they got the smile but were very ineffective.

Gwimbly: Definitive Remastered Enhanced Extended Edition DX 4K (Anniversary Director’s Cut):
not the greatest showing from allan and pim. unfortunately neither of them really managed to do much to help gwimbly. in the end though, they did get the smile and I don't thing they did anything to make the situation worse, at least not anything that I can realistically blame them for. so I'm gonna give them a e-tier. I've seen worse.

brother's egg:
did they do anything in this episode? pim didn't really manage to convince doug to talk to his brother again, that happened because a metal beam fell on some random dude, and charlie didn't manage to give professor psychotic any real advice. and then when they got the two of them to talk to each other, it went horrible. 
they got the smile in the end, but man, this is feeling like an e-tier performance. 

silly samuel:
yeah, they're observers in this one. nothing they try to do manages to help with anything silly samuel is going through, and in the end he only smiles because he and the rest of the crowd almost get crushed by the smiling friends building, and the people start to take him seriously. e-tier for pim and charlie. 
the boss however, is getting an f-tier, for building a building using cheap labor and ignoring every single housing regulation in the book, trying to murder the inspector, and only having 1 rickety nail to keep the entire house stuck to the ground. I feel like all of that definitely goes against the philosophy of the smiling friends. but I guess, the inspector did smile and found all of the bosses nonsense pretty funny, so you know what, i'll bump it up to an e-tier for the boss as well.

F
-
mr. frog: 
neither charlie nor pim's ideas actually managed to help mr. frog. they mostly made things worse to be honest. I feel like this is worse than the desmond's day out because while they didn't manage to do much for desmond, they didn't actively make things worse. f-tier. for mr. frog. mr. frog however gets an s-tier for dragging himself out of the gutter he put himself in. and also because I'm afraid he'll jump out of my screen and kick my head in if I give him anything lower. 

shrimp's odyssey:
however, pim was not the only smiling friend in this episode. and charlie didn't manage to do literally anything this whole episode but injure shrimp and give him the worst possible advice over and over again. f-tier for charlie, jesus christ dude, try harder. 

enchanted forest: 
however, pim was mostly useless, and his only contribution was completely by accidental, so I'm sorry, but I gotta give him the f-tier. this really was charlie's episode. and pim was there too. 

frowning friends:
I mean, you gotta give grim and gnarly kudos, despite being new to the business, they had the smiling friend's number at every corner, and very nearly managed to indoctrinate the entire city into their plans to spread the word of frowning and eliminate all the puerto-ricans. 
pim and charlie did not manage to budge the needle, and the boss only managed to turn things around by snapping and coming up to shoot grim and gnarly to death, which is very against the philosophy of the smiling friends. and allan and glep straight up betrayed the smiling friends too?
dawg f-tiers all around. f for frowning friends fucking took the cake on this one. 

charlie, pim and bill vs the alien:
not a traditional job, they get abducted by aliens, and the destroy a planet to avoid getting sent to an eternal prison of pain and suffering, which turns out to just be some crap that the aliens got off of alibaba, and also to get home, which it turns out the aliens couldn't even do.
and yeh, technically the planet didn't have life on it, but pim and charlie didn't know that. f-tiers all around, they got taken for a ride and didn't manage to live up to the smiling friends philosophy at all

curse of the halloween witch:
I mean, they couldn't even give the witch 10 cents, and while pim was willing to, his lack of a backbone means he is also complicit. and then the boss put the poor witch in a headlock. dawg, she wanted 10c, and you are the smiling friends. I feel like this is a critical failure on everyone's fault. also, while I was going to give pim a better score, he also did murder everyone in the crystal ball, so I'm givin' f-tiers all around, not a great day for the smiling friends. 

pim and charlie save mother nature:
long story short - they do not. pim straight up kills mother nature, caps a mother fucker, but he does do it to save charlie. but also nature literally dies in that episodes, so I'm not sure I can give let this slide. also, they didn't have a traditional job this episode, this was another vacation episode, and pim and charlie managed to fail spectacularly at relaxing.
also charlie littering was the reason why pim had to kill mother nature. f-tier for charlie

the smiling friends go to brazil:
well, the goal of this episode was to relax in brazil, and they failed spectacularly. and it was mostly pim's fault. although when there's a miscommunication like this you have imagine the blame can be spread around. charlie probably forgot to tell him or something. and glep probably didn't lift a finger to help plan the trip. f-tiers all around. and it's too bad they couldn't see brazil, it's a beautiful country. 

squim returns:
and charlie plays sick to play video games, and as a result completely misses the entire plot, earning himself an f-tier for being a FUCKING LYING RAT.

the glep ep:
well, there's no traditional job here, unless there was an off screen job handled by the remaining smiling friends after glep is fired. if there was one though, it's pretty clear that it did not go well, so f-tiers there. 
and glep managed to piss off pretty much everyone he wandered in this episode, and started the bubonic plague, so I'm gonna have to dock marks for that. 
also, come on mr. boss, you're not even going to try and resolve this like a rational person? non? okay. 
f-tiers all around.

Friend-Bot (Version 12589218731809213528796879521):
I mean, they didn't manage to make the guy at the beginning smile, and then he immediately died, so I can't give charlie or pim a good review on that performance. charlie, allan and the boss all ended up gettin so obsessed with the robot that they nearly killed each other. but charlie did send his fat to starving children in the end credit scenes. 
pim was the only one that kept his head with the robot, and was willing to give up the job he liked to make everyone in the world smile, although to be fair that seems like a no-brainer.
but we gotta talk about friend-bot. did a week's worth of smiling friends clients, did allan's work for a year immediately, dealt with all the absolutely horrifying shit the smiling friends asked of him, and literally had a plan to make the entire world smile, which I have to trust he actually would've made good on it, considering his track record. 
and then it turns out that the robot was actually a low resolution indian man, who was doing all of this with chatgpt and journey.
this is a complex episode. let's break it down:
the boss gets an f-tier for the absolutely horrifying things he did to that poor robot.
allan gets an e-tier for not being as bad as the boss.
charlie gets a d-tier for sending his fat to starving children, bringing up his image. 
pim gets an a-tiers for choosing to do the right thing and not getting suckered by the robot, but misses out on the s-tier for hesitating for so long on the choice to make LITERALLY EVERYONE IN THE WORLD SMILE, but he was going to do the right thing in the end. 
glep gets an s-tier for not getting suckered into the robot at all, and being the voice of reason and unplugging the robot when things got out of control. 
and finally, for completing all of the smiling friends work for a year and also having a plan to make every single person in the world smile, the robot/low resolution indiant man gets the coveted s+ tier. 
jesus that was quite the breakdown. 










