have you ever heard of this game called um jammer lammy? I can't imagine you have. in fact, I started writing this and realised I couldn't remember if it was "un jammer lammy" or "un jammy lammer". and then I realised both of those names were wrong, because it starts with an "um" instead of an "un". so it's "um jammer lammy". 

apparently "um jammer lammy" translates to "Oh dear, Lammy!" in german, which I think makes sense, considering the context of the game. or if you translate it from luxembourgish (wait really, that's what they speak in luxembourg?) it translates to "um, sorry lammy". and if you translate it from afrikaans, google will straight up hang for 30 seconds before spitting out "um, sorry lammy" again. 

I'm not much for forums or discussion boards, so I have no idea if this is like a cult classic game or what, but I have to assume it's not widely know. I checked metacritic briefly and there aren't any critic reviews available, and only 14 user ratings. IGN also had only 14 user ratings - huh, suspicious. do IGN and metacritic share reviews or something? but IGN did have a critic rating on this one, 8.6, which... is a very nice score for someone to give this game. 

alright, let me see if I can jog your memory on this one. it's the less popular sequel to "parappa rappa", the rhythm game starring a rapping dog in an orange tuque, the one that says "YOU GOTTA BELIEVE" a lot. 

oh wait, actually does anyone parappa the rapper? alright, well it was the skateboarding dog who was a playable character in sony's version of super smash bros., "playstation all-stars". he was one of the characters along with "sir daniel" and "fat princess" where people were like "I'm sorry, which game is this from?" or "oh yeah... I thiiink I remember that game". 

oh wait, DID ANYONE ACTUALLY PLAY PLAYSTATION ALL-STARS?!?! IS ANY OF THIS HELPFUL?! but I just had to talk about this game. I really like it. 

not for the gameplay though. 

both parrapa the rapper and um jammy lammer feature rhythm gameplay, but before guitar hero 1 came out and popularized instrument peripherals, so you played it with the actual ps1-2 controller, which isn't nearly as good as the guitar controllers. 

I think the problem is that you have to have the buttons on the controller memorized to figure out which one to pick, and I played the ps3 for years and never managed to do that to the level where I would've been able to enjoy parrapa. 

where as the guitar controllers are lined up exactly as the colors are on the screen, so there's no barrier to entry, it's immediately apparently exactly what buttons you click to hit the notes in the actual game. you could probably get the same sort of thing, but you'd have to do a compass sort of thing instead of a bar thing if you're using the controller. the other problem though is that normally when you play with a guitar peripheral, you have all your fingers available, because it's designed like a guitar, where as if you're using the controller you have access to your thumb to hit the main 4 buttons, and that's it. so when you have multiple notes that are different buttons in quick succession, you're working with 1 thumb to hit all of them.

and the guitar peripheral also gives you a strumming button, which is much better for doing long strings of the same notes vs mashing the same button, because you can strum both up and down. 

but the main thing, is that the guitar just seems cooler. to be fair, for parappa at the least, it's supposed to be rapping that you're doing, so it doesn't bother me to use a controller from an immersion stand point, but jammy lammer would feel way cooler if you could actually hit those guitar licks with a guitar peripheral. I feel - fucking - stupid, doing that shit with a controller. 

so 1 point for guitar hero. not that this is what the point of the blog is or anything, i'm just saying, the custom guitar periphals add so much to this kind of game.

also this is an old ps game, so the graphics are half hilarious half terrifying. watching all the characters animate is so fucking uncanny at this point. and they're designs will show up in your nightmares. 

the story is the main character lammy trying to get to her concert show thing, but she keeps getting caught up in nonsense, and each song is some new nonsense she gets caught up in, like stopping a house from burning down, getting caught up in a pregnancy parade (????!) and like, crashing a plane into a parking lot and getting put on america's most wanted list, which was the only point in the game that got a legitimate laugh from me. the part where she got really fat after eating pizza, and the she got caught up the pregnancy parade where the nursery caterpillar who's constantly throwing up, and then she uh, flies on a plane with a bipolar pilot who goes back and forth between angry psycho and kooky doof, and then you use a teleportation device that you get from an alien idol - 

ah wait, I think I skipped a page. the story is a fever dream, I'm not even sure if it's funny bad or just straight up bad, it's definitely toe-ing the line at parts. 

in reality, I don't think jammer lammy really has held up all that well over the years, but I can give it one point - considering how rough the rest of the game is, its soundtrack is way better than it has any right to be. assuming you skip through the generic sounding score and move right on to the songs with lyrics. 

each segment of the game where you're doing something, like putting out the fire or whatever, you get a song that you have to play well, and lammy imagines that the tool she is using is a guitar, and then you play a song, and then you beat the level. 

each song is given a different genre, which when you're just listening to the OST as an album, gives it a lot of versatility. it has a hip-hop song, funk, surfer rock, southern rock, pop-rock (alright, alot of the soundtrack is just various styles of rock) and finally even an indie-rock cut. each song has a unique feel to it compared to the others, and the genres are all handled really well to my ear. 

but what's fascinating to me is that this is entirely a result of these games being made for a video game. each section has a new character you're dealing with an a little story involved, and the music brings out the most of each scene by being a genre bespoke to that scene. 

and it isn't just the genre switching either. the gameplay works by having the character who lammy's jamming with start by singing the part that you'll be playing in a moment, while notes that you don't have to hit scroll across the screen, giving you a preview of what you're going to have to play, and then lammy hits a little guitar solo that sounds like the part that was just sung. 

so the songs all have this sort of call and response thing between the vocals and the guitar which sound really cool and unique. I'm sure this sort of thing has been done before, but I haven't heard it done to this extent, and over the course of an entire album as a sort of musical through-line, it works really well. 

each response from the guitar sounds like a mini guitar solo, and kind of reminds me of "nanook rubs it" or "stink-foot" from frank zappa, with all these mini solos. also, this game is goofy as hell (seriously, stink-foot or nanook rubs it would've fit into the game perfectly) but when some of those guitar licks come in, you gotta air guitar along. specifically sections from "power on! power off!" hit just right. that's the part of the game where you're chainsaw-ing a new guitar out of a tree, and if you fail, the beaver who's helping you calls you a joker. 

I'm not sure I'd enjoy an actual playthrough of this game, but the soundtrack ended up feeling so unique and vibrant purely as a result of it being intended for and sculpted around a video game. I don't know, I just thought that was a cool thing. and I don't really know how to end this thought, so I'm not going to. 

...
...
...
............

COMIN' AT CHA, FLY - HI.





