So recently I read a short comic series called "I hate fairyland". it's the story about a young girl who wishes to go to a land of magic and happiness, and then her wish comes true and she gets dragged into that world against her wishes, finds out she's really bad at questing, and ends up hating every moment of her new life as she desperately attempts to find the key that will open the door back to her world. 

it's a very over the top dark comedy/ parody of the alice in wonderland story. actually, it's not even really a parody of alice in wonderland, because alice in wonderland came to a similar conclusion by the end of the story, which is that as bad as our world is, it'd probably be way worse if you were stuck in a fairy tale world where everything is nonsense, and you don't understand anything. 

but it is a twist on that frequently used fairy tale story, where you go to another world and you have a grand adventure. gertrude, the main character, is a little monster. she murders everything she runs into. she's gone mad after being stuck in this world for like 27 years or so, and now she's a miserable, angry, destructive 37 year old stuck in the body of a 10 year old. 

it's hysterical to me. I love reading things that genuinely makes me think "how did this get made?". it's the reason why I loved anime when I first started watching. it's the reason I've gotten somewhat tired with anime since I've gotten used to it. in reality, it's not that crazy, it's just getting used to a different culture. and then once you're used to it, you find out that most of the stuff being done in that media is pretty much the same stuff over and over again. 

fuck isekais. except for "I hate fairyland". and of course "the devil is a part-timer". THOSE ARE THE ONLY 2. 

I can't say this story managed to fully surprise me at this point, I've seen plenty of stuff along these lines, but it was fun, and there's a lot of stuff in it where I was like "wow, that's pretty raunchy!". 

like the very first issue, where gertrude falls out of the sky into the new world, and lands smack down on the ground and gets all messed up. in the panels before that fall, her teeth are perfect, and after that fall, her teeth are messed up, and it's not just for a 2-panel joke, they're like that for the rest of the story. 

I think partially what makes this funny for me.... is that it's a kid. this is where my interest in absurdity comes in. you just can't, like, do that when working with most production companies. you can't smash a kids teeth in the first panel and then just have that be there for the rest of a comic series. YOU CAN'T DO THAT! but also you totally can, and because no one else does it, it's hilarious. 

gertrude is also one of my favorite kinds of protagonists, a violent ball of instinct. she reminds me of the saints row protagonist, they're just anarchic lunatics.
 
she also has a little fly friend who's a guide for her in this world, but she spends the entire series basically ignoring him and doing whatever he wants. and at the point we skip to in the story, he's so used to this and just done with everything, that he's always just there with a cigar and is dead inside. and he's also very funny, he's a great straight man. 

comics might be the best place to explore these sort of stories. in fact, most non-IRL (animation, comics, etc) are a good way to handle stories about children. specifically fucked up stories. because it always feels weird to see a kid in a very dramatic live action movie where something real... bad, happens to that kid. 

like what do they think of that? does that affect them as they grow up? will they look back at that and regret their inclusion in that movie? they're not of age, so a parent has to be making that decision for them, and I wonder if it's something that they're really old enough to be thinking deeply about. 

but animation? why the fuck not. there's no problem there, unless you're getting the kids to do the animation for 4.50 an hour. I'm very much a believer of making whatever you want, as long as "no one was harmed in the making of this movie". and the kids can't be harmed, becaues they're 2D and don't actually exist. 

yet again, as long as you're not out-sourcing all your work to child labour factories. or driving your adult employees to work 14 hour shifts so you can get your crappy movie out for the holidays. 


---

near the end of the 20 issues, the little fly guy, who's name I can't remember, fluff me, asks gertrude why she hates this place. and my first answer would be "well, she fell out of the sky when she was 10 and permanently messed up her face, that would do it for me."

but she says "the choice (...) it doesn't matter how fun something is, if you're OBLIGATED to do it, you learn to resent it."

and it's interesting, because she did ask to go to another world, but at the same time, the door didnt' just open and she walked in. she made the wish (when she was 10) and got DRAGGED in. and yeah, that would probably suck. especially if you fell from the sky and fucked up your face. 

and this idea also shows in how gertrude interacts with the world. the story says that she's really bad at questing. kids show up, they finish the quest in 1 day, and they leave. but gertrude hasn't managed to finish the quest for 27 years, because she REFUSES to acknowledge the game and play along. 

the comic eventually introduces a character who does actually complete the quest - happy. happy is fun and joyful and finds the key in 1 day, and almost makes it out - except gertrude fucking murders her just before she leaves. she isn't smarter than gertrude, her attitude was better. she played the game. gertrude doesn't want to do that. 

granted, you can't blame her. she seems to be a very... unique kid, and she went insane and bitter before she could become an adult and realise that sometimes you need to just accept it and play along. sometimes, you don't have a choice. or well, I guess you always do, but sometimes you have 2 choices: be happy or do it the hard way. 

I like gertrude probably because I understand her. she wants to have choice, and do things her way. I also want to do that. I want to be a game developer, but more specifically, I want to be involved in EVERY aspect of that. it'd be easier if I'd just pick 1 thing, and then join a team, but it's important to me that I can do things by myself - even when I do eventually join a team, I want to know that if I need to do something, I can. 

gertrude the same. she was presented with a world she didn't want to deal with, and dealt with it the way she wanted to. and she ended up stuck in fairyland for 27 years. and I failed my video game course twice because I refused to join a team.

even when she finally gets back to her world, she's still not happy. it's not... super clear on wether she returns to her world right after she left, or if she was just gone for 27 years,  or if she returned as a 10 year old or age to her proper age of 37.

honestly, the way it's presented, she leaves fairyland, and it hard cuts to her being woken up after falling asleep in her office, working a shitty desk job. and it almost comes off as if the whole experience was like 1 big dream or something. but I don't think that was the intention, I just don't know exactly what they were going for. 

they needed a panel that said "27 years later" or "the next day" just so I know what the fluff's going on. or a shot of her getting back to her parents as a kid AND THEN it cuts to her in the office 10 years later. 

and yeah, at her new job, she's also just fed up with her life. to the point where she briefly considers googling how to get back to fairyland, before deciding that no matter how bad this place is, fairyland is much worse. 

but there was actually a sequel, and while I didn't get that far into it, it starts off with her fucking HATING her life. and she blames it on her trip to fairyland, which fucked her. it's also kind of implied that she just got dumped back in this world as an adult, because it seems like she hasn't had time to readjust, or that's how she seems to explain it. but yet again, none of this is explicitly shown, so I just have to guess. 

but yeah, that makes sense. she went mad in fairyland and became a violent sociopath. of course she can't readjust to her old life, possibly no matter how long you gave her. she gets fired from every job, gets into a bar fight, and despite her being basically unstoppable in the other world, to the point where her fighting a jacked 7 foot tall 

but yet again, she's having the same problem as in fairyland - she just can't play the game. she's realised that becoming an adult, she doesn't have a choice in what she's doing. she needs money to survive, and she just has to do whatever job will hire her because she's so poorly adjusted and can't hold a job down anymore. 

so she goes back to fairyland, and apparently gets killed by her younger version, which is kind of funny. I didn't get that far, a youtube video spoiled me (thanks youtube).


---

I enjoyed "I hate fairyland" but honestly, I'm not sure I'd return to it. not because I don't think it's good enough, but because I like more positive or light-hearted stories, and I'm not sure this qualifies. 

it's interesting exactly what sets me off. I read "berserk", and after I was done, I definitely needed a break, but you know what? the next year, I got a huge craving to read berserk again. and the second time around, I found it weirdly comforting. 

which is funny, because so much terrible stuff happens in berserk, and yet for whatever reason I genuine think I'd have more trouble coming back to "I hate fairyland".

and there's 2 main reasons I can think about this. the first is that in the case of berserk, the horrifying stuff is treated as horrifying, by both the tone of the story and the characters in the story. and it's juxtaposed by lighter moments from time to time. so it feels like there's humanity in berserk. we all understand that terrible things are terrible. and the characters survive and grow despite that. 

in fairyland, the main characters are so far gone that horrifying gore doesn't even phase them, in fact they often quip and joke about it. the tone of the story is "dark and comedic" meaning that horrifying shit happens and is joked about. not only that, but while there is a bit of redemption for gertrude at the end, it really feels like there's nothing but horrifying stuff happening, there's no break, it's just brutal front to back. 

it feels inhumane, in a way. which is probably exactly what the author was going for, in a realm with wacky fairy tale characters and a main character that's gone insane. 

but the other thing is that berserk is fundamentally about a warrior who's had the worst fucking life imagineable, and yet despite all that, continues to fight darkness, and make surrogate family, and survive and learn to love again. for as brutal as the world is, the character never gives in. even after becoming more injury than man.

also, in the back half it really starts to feel like a goofy adventure shonen at points, like when guts in jumping around on like barrels in the ocean while fighting a comedy pirate zombie crew. 

I feel hope when i read berserk, that somehow, everything will work out. 

whereas the main character in I hate fairyland very much lets the world wear her down, and she doesn't ever really recover. once she gets back to her world, she finds that it's just as bad. no matter where she goes, fairyland, the real world, fluffin' outer space, the world will always be shit because that's just the universe she lives in.

and she'll spefically never be happy because her attitude is so bad, no matter where she ends up. honestly, that seems to be the take away. if you're like gertrude, it doesn't matter where you end up, your life will suck because you refuse to deal with life in a positive way. 

but then again, the only happy characters that the comic follows were happy, who gertrude killed. and gertrude herself, after getting redemption balls that made her a good person for a couple of chapters. in those couple of chapters, she made it farther into her quest than she ever had before. and then she tripped and de-brained herself when her lollipop went through her head. 

so maybe the author's message is no one can be happy. miserable people will make themselves miserable, and happy people will get screwed over by the world. 




